welcome to slash forward in this episode
we're gonna descend into the hell of our
own minds with the 1990s psychological
horror film Jacob's Ladder let's get to
it
we open on helicopters dropping supplies
in Vietnam which is good because the men
are Haggard
they've been lingering here somewhere
between death for some time the titular
Jacob finishes pooping just off camp and
the men enjoy some salty talk at his
expense
oh that's crass but Charlie says screw
your levity and there's movement spotted
on the treeline the response is confused
possibly due to some tainted ganja and
everything turns to chaos the end result
for Jacob involves finding himself alone
in the jungle on the business end of a
bayonet and then he flashes forward to
modern day on the subway he tries to
verify if he slept past his stop
forgetting he's in New York City and
surrounded by some of the most colorful
of characters so he hops off trying to
politely ignore this hobos wet tale the
only way topside requires him to cross
the tracks and he's almost smeared
across the ground by the death train he
eventually makes it home to his loving
girlfriend later he discovers a package
of old pictures and had been dropped off
taking him down memory lane with his
prior family and triggering distance
traumatic memories of Kevin McCallister
we learned this was his son who died
before the war not wanting to see him in
pain his lady drops his past life into
the incinerator we later see that he
also works with Jesse and he tells her
he's leaving early due to recurring back
pain he goes to the only person you
could trust in these situations his
chiropractor who tries to convince him
to attempt reconciliation with his
ex-wife before cracking him back to Nam
he walks home feeling like a million
bucks until a random car transporting
phantoms runs him down and basically
undoes his whole adjustment he goes to
see his psychiatrist but the surly admin
has no record of dr. Carlson working
there or if Jacob as a patient he
decides to take a look for himself and
busts in on a group therapy session the
facilitator informs him dr. Carlson died
in your everyday run-of-the-mill car
explosion as we all know there's only
one cure for clearing one's head of
demons and it's dirty dancing but
fortunately amidst the din and sweat and
lights he sees Jesse being gently
caressed by Satan's [ __ ] which sends him
at home he's discovered to have a
temperature of 106 and so he's
immediately put in an ice bath to keep
his brain from baking this causes him to
wake up with his ex-wife Sarah to whom
he describes his life with Jesse as a
bad dream they get to do and what comes
natural between a man and a woman
when they're interrupted by the coke
stir he takes him back to bed where we
see Jacob actually has two other sons
but the coke is his precious golden
cherub he then wakes up back with Jesse
unsure of whether he's dead or alive and
as he begins the slow process of
recovery he bones up on his demonology
he gets a welcome break from this when
contacted by his old war buddy Paul they
meet up for beers and to discuss their
descent into hell Paul admits to having
the same visions and when they leave he
falls victims here everyday
run-of-the-mill car explosion after the
service all the fellows get together and
make similar admissions they were all
seeing dr. Carlson as well and they
collectively decided to consult with an
attorney they settle on Jason Alexander
doing some acting here and he agrees to
take statements and at least start
looking into things because he smells a
possible class action against the army
almost immediately Jake learns the case
is dropped he checks in with Frank who
confirms all the guys dropped out for
personal reasons they're not willing to
discuss but Jake insists on moving
forward when he confronts Gary he learns
that the initial check into their story
revealed a series of psychological
discharges and no record of any of them
ever actually making it to Vietnam on
his way home Jake gets the kind of
confrontation that likely convinced the
others to back off but he's continuing
to fight the power and provides a fairly
serious distraction for the driver
before bailing out on the sidewalk Santa
takes this opportunity to lift his
wallet so he's brought to the hospital
ranting about calling his chiropractor
and being robbed by Santa Claus when he
wakes up he's restrained and being
wheeled through a part of the hospital
where the rules and regulations are
somewhat lacks and the environment gets
progressively more nightmarish until he
gets to his room being a teaching
hospital he finds the room somewhat
crowded and gets into a verbal jousting
match with a surgeon about whether he's
alive this is your home you're dead
checkmate Louis arrives and removes
Jacob under the authority of the
chiropractor's Association of America so
he can give him what he truly needs to
begin healing a brief localized intense
pressure on his spinal cord
amen he goes home to review his
credentials and reestablish what's real
and gets a call from an anonymous man
promising answers the man was recruited
by the Army in exchange for avoiding
jail time to create a dark LSD that taps
into a person's anger and aggression he
called it the latter a quick trip to
primal of fear he confirms it was tested
on Jacobs group but it proved too
effective they were given a micro dose
in their food knowing from intelligence
that a battle was looming and on that
fateful day the battle ended up being
against their own battalion prior to the
enemy even getting there this is a harsh
realization but one that finally shakes
free some repressed memories lingering
in the back of Jacobs mind jacob takes a
cab home as he attempts to process this
and thinks nothing of being dropped at a
building with a doorman he walks into
the memory of someone else's life and
awakes to find Gabe alive and in
desperate need of a haircut
he leaves Jacob stares into the morning
light and when the light goes out we
find him dead in a hospital temps
succumbing to his injuries after a
protracted struggle and that was Jacob's
Ladder an intense and depressing tale of
death and loss if you enjoyed the video
I'd love for you to become a part of the
channel by subscribing thanks for
watching